hey this is pressure Walker a group of
10 rabbits enjoys racing against each
other but the group also has a friendly
spirit the rabbits plan races so that
each rabbit beats every other rabbit
rabbit a is said to beat rabbit be if
rabbit a finishes at least one spot
ahead of rabbit be in some race rabbit a
does not have to win the race it only
has to finish ahead of rabbit be in some
race a simple solution is the group
plans 10 races where each rabbit
finishes first in a different race but
is there a more efficient method what is
the minimum number of races so that each
rabbits can claim to beat every other
rabbit for the minimum number how many
different ways can they plan the races
and what if there are n rabbits
how many races are needed and how many
ways can they plan the races can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution
so somewhat surprisingly the rabbits
only need to plan two races let's number
the rabbits from 1 to 10 and let's write
the finishing order of the race as a b c
and so on to mean a finishes and last
place then b finishes then c finishes
and so on in the first race we'll put
the rabbits in sequential order
well rabbit ten beats all of the other
rabbits rabbit nine beats all the
rabbits except for ten rabbit eight
beats all of the rabbits except for ten
and nine and so on until rabbit one
beats no one so now each rabbit is
beating all of the numbers that are less
than that rabbits number in the next
race what we'll do is we'll have the
rabbit finish in exactly the reverse
order now in this race it's the opposite
each rabbit beats all of the rabbits
whose numbers are higher than the
rabbits number so rabbit one beats all
of the other rabbits rabbit two beats
all of the rabbits except for one rabbit
three beats all of the rabbits except
for one and two and so on and so rabbit
nment beeps no one you can check that
together with these two races each
rabbit can claim to have beaten all of
the other rabbits this demonstrates that
Chu is a possible solution furthermore
it shows that Q is the minimum number we
know that one race cannot suffice
because in that first race there will be
a rabbit who finishes in last place
who doesn't beat anyone else so two is
the minimum number and it is achieved so
how many different ways can they claim
these races well in this solution
I put the rabbits in order from 1 to 10
but the first race can actually be any
arrangement of the numbers from 1 to 10
it can be any permutation of the numbers
from 1 to 10 and the second race just
has the same numbers in reverse order
you can check that that solution work
so how many different ways are there for
this well the first rate can be any
permutation and there are 10 factorial
ways to arrange 10 different rats so
there are 10 factorial ways the problem
generalizes to n rabbits we once again
only need two races the first race will
have the rabbits going in order from 1
to N and the second race can be the
reverse order but in fact the first race
could be any permutation of the numbers
1 to N and the second race would be the
reverse order how many ways are there to
order the numbers 1 n there are n
factorial permutations and that's the
number of ways that they could climb the
races to have the minimum number of
races did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch one of my
blogs my year decisions as you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch it on social media at
pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my book there are
links in the video description